{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf420
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww24460\viewh15120\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs22 \cf0 ================================\
=== OJS CMS RSS Plugin\
=== Version: 1.0\
=== Release date: April 1, 2007\
=== Author: Juan Pablo Alperin <juan@geeky.net>\
================================\
\
About\
-----\
This plugin for OJS 2 provides Feed Aggregation functionality to the CMS plugin.  The plugin uses SimplePie RSS feed aggregator to manipulate the feeds.\
\
License\
-------\
This plugin is licensed under the GNU General Public License v2. See the file COPYING for the complete terms of this license.\
\
System Requirements\
-------------------\
Same requirements as the OJS 2.1.x core.\
\
Installation\
------------\
To install the plugin:\
 - enable the plugin by going to:  Home > User > Journal Management > Plugin Management  and selecting "ENABLE" under "CMS RSS Plugin"\
\
Configuration\
------------\
In order to configure this plugin, the CMS plugin must be installed and enabled.  Furthermore, there must be at least 1 page in the CMS.  RSS feed aggregations are added to _already existing_ CMS pages.  This plugin does NOT create new pages, it simply appends to an existing page.  In order to create a page that only has the RSS feed, you must create a blank page in the CMS Plugin (by placing only an Heading).\
\
Specific Settings:\
**Oldest Items:  If you wish to hide items that are outdated, place the number of months here\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 **Combine the feeds for each page and sort by date:  This setting is applicable only if you have more than one feed on the same page (i.e. same page name).  If checked, the feeds from all of the URL's will be combined and sorted by date (in reverse chronological order).  If not checked, The feeds will appear in the order entered on this plugins CMS page (all of the items from one URL followed by all of the items from the next).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 **Page Name: must correspond to the heading of the CMS page (which appears in the table of contents). You must separate heading names with a ":". For example: heading1:heading2.\
**URL: The URL must correspond to the RSS feed.  The plugin will attempt to find feeds from the given URL in the standard fashion.  For further details, see the SimplePie documentation.\
\
Other Configuration\
-------------------\
Each item of the RSS feed will be displayed according to the rss.tpl file.  By default, this file shows the title of the post, a brief excerpt, and the source (URL/Title).  Users wishing to show each item differently can edit this file.  Two variables are loaded into this template: $feed and $item.  $feed is a SimplePie Feed object and $item is a SimplePie Item object.  For further description of the methods available on these objects, please consult the SimplePie documentation (http://www.simplepie.org).\
\
Known Limitations\
-----------------\
- Feed URL's are not validated on the settings page\
- Page Names are not checked against the CMS to make sure they exist\
- There is no feedback when feeds are not recognized properly or when there is any type of error.  The Page will likely just appear blank.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Contact/Support\
---------------\
Please email the author for support, bugfixes, or comments.}