{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf420
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww24460\viewh15120\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs22 \cf0 ================================\
=== OJS CMS Plugin\
=== Version: 1.0\
=== Release date: April 1, 2007\
=== Author: Juan Pablo Alperin <juan@geeky.net>\
================================\
\
About\
-----\
This plugin for OJS 2 provides a Simple CMS that allows for the creation and maintenance of static content pages.\
\
License\
-------\
This plugin is licensed under the GNU General Public License v2. See the file COPYING for the complete terms of this license.\
\
System Requirements\
-------------------\
Same requirements as the OJS 2.1.x core \
\
Installation\
------------\
To install the plugin:\
 - enable the plugin by going to:  Home > User > Journal Management > Plugin Management  and selecting "ENABLE" under "CMS Plugin"\
 - The TinyMCE Plugin and the Layout Manager Plugin must be installed\
\
Configuration\
-------------\
The CMS's Table of Contents appears in the sidebar and its location can be adjusted by using the Layout Manager Plugin.\
\
Content can be entered into the ADD/EDIT CONTENT page.  Every page must begin with an H1, H2, or H3 heading.  Nested headings will break out into multiple pages, but retain their hierarchy in the the Plugin's table of contents.  H4 headings remain as headings and do not break out onto multiple pages.  When in ADD/EDIT content mode, the table of contents can be used to navigate to the page one wishes to edit.  When out of this mode, the table of contents lets users navigate the different content pages. \
\
TinyMCE forces all content to be XHTML compliant, so be careful when copying/pasting content from other editors.  Invalid tags will automatically be stripped out.\
\
The Image button works relative to the public files directory for the current journal.  i.e. for an image file located at public/journals/1/images/sample.jpg, the image button of TinyMCE expect you to enter 'images/sample.jpg' for the URL.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Contact/Support\
---------------\
Please email the author for support, bugfixes, or comments.}